README.md, before:

OpenLinkstation
===============

----
Purpose
----

To get system updated on Linkstation series, it's better to replace the stock firmware with system seriously maintained, like Debian.


----
Howto
----

Step0, get SSH shell access. Run on your Linux PC:

	0_get-ssh/get-ssh.sh <Linkstation IP> [Linkstation web login password]

Step1, debootstrap to data partition (/dev/sda6 for one-disk version or /dev/md2 for RAID version). Run on Linkstation box:

	1_debootstrap/build_rootfs_with_buffalo-kernel.sh
	reboot

Step2, reboot into Debian system on data partition, then build the final rootfs on root partition. Run on Linkstation box:

	/build_rootfs_with_buffalo-kernel.sh debian
	reboot

After a few minutes on booting, you should be able to log into your Linkstation with Debian installed. Clean up the stuff we don't need any more:

	cd /mnt
	rm -rf bin boot dev dev etc home lib media mnt opt proc root sbin selinux srv sys tmp usr var run


----
Status
----

Confirmed to be working on the model/firmware below:

 - LS-VL 1.69 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)
 - LS-WXL 1.69 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)
 - LS-WSXL 1.69 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)
 - LS-WVL 1.69 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)


----
Credit
----

- http://sourceforge.net/p/linkstationwiki/code/HEAD/tree/acp_commander/trunk/
- http://buffalo.nas-central.org/wiki/Debian_Squeeze_on_LS-WXL
- http://buffalo.nas-central.org/wiki/Initrd_for_Raid-Boot
- http://www.hellion.org.uk/blog/posts/debugging-initramfs-over-netconsole/

Commit message:

start working on the latest LS-420 series. first things first, the SSH login is confirmed OK now.

README.md, after:

OpenLinkstation
===============


----
NEWS
----

The DeviceTree (DTB) for Linkstation WXL/WVL used here is going to be merged into mainline Linux!

	Latest status from ML: http://lists.infradead.org/pipermail/linux-arm-kernel/2015-July/357283.html


----
Purpose
----

To get system updated on Linkstation series, it's better to replace the stock firmware with system seriously maintained, like Debian.


----
Howto
----

Step0, get SSH shell access. Run on your Linux PC:

	0_get-ssh/get-ssh.sh <Linkstation IP> [Linkstation web login password]

Step1, debootstrap to data partition (/dev/sda6 for one-disk version or /dev/md2 for RAID version). Run on Linkstation box:

	1_debootstrap/build_rootfs_with_buffalo-kernel.sh
	reboot

Step2, reboot into Debian system on data partition, then build the final rootfs on root partition. Please note the password for ssh login is just 'password'. After login, run on Linkstation box:

	mount /dev/<root dev> /mnt
	/linkstation/1_debootstrap/build_rootfs_with_buffalo-kernel.sh debian
	reboot

After a few minutes on booting, you should be able to log into your Linkstation with Debian installed. Clean up the stuff we don't need any more:

	cd /mnt
	rm -rf bin boot dev dev etc home lib media mnt opt proc root sbin selinux srv sys tmp usr var run


----
Status
----

Confirmed to be working on the model/firmware below:

 - LS-VL 1.68 ~ 1.70 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)
 - LS-WXL 1.68 ~ 1.70 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)
 - LS-WSXL 1.68 ~ 1.70 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)
 - LS-WVL 1.68 ~ 1.70 (Debian Wheezy-backport / Jessie kernel + own DTB)
 - LS-420 1.80 ~ 1.81 (step0, enable SSH only. still working on it)


----
Credit
----

- http://sourceforge.net/p/linkstationwiki/code/HEAD/tree/acp_commander/trunk/
- http://buffalo.nas-central.org/wiki/Debian_Squeeze_on_LS-WXL
- http://buffalo.nas-central.org/wiki/Initrd_for_Raid-Boot
- http://www.hellion.org.uk/blog/posts/debugging-initramfs-over-netconsole/
